---
layout: post
title: "Notes on Functional Programming in Scala"
subtitle: "in Scala"
categories: code
author: Anshul Chauhan
Description: "My notes on Functional Programming via Scala"
katex: True
syntax: True
tags: scala functional publish
---

> _this note is a work-in-progress, it's continuously updated_

- **Functional programming** is a programming paradigm
  that is based on the idea of treating computation as the evaluation of
  mathematical functions. Functional languages treat functions as _first-class
  values_, which means that they can be passed as arguments to other
  functions, returned as values from functions, and assigned to variables.
- **Pure function**: A function $$f$$ with the input type $$A$$ and output type
  $$B$$ is a computation that relates every value $$a$$ of type $$A$$ to
  exactly one value $$b$$ of type $$B$$ such that $$b$$ is determined solely by
  the value of $$a$$. Think of an injective(one-to-one) function in
  Mathematics. For example a function that returns the next integer. $$ (x \in \Z) $$

$$ f(x) = x + 1$$

The equivalent Scala code looks like:

{% highlight scala %}
def f(x: Int): Int = x+1
{% endhighlight %}

- **Side effects**: modification of the _state_ outside of the local scope.
- **Referential transparency**:  A piece of code is referentially transparent if we
  can safely replace that piece of code with the value it computes and
  vice-versa, anywhere where that piece is used, without changing the meaning
  or result of our program.
- **Higher order function** does at least one of the following two:
  - Take one or more functions as an argument
  - Returns a function as it's result
- **tail recursion**: A tail recursive function calls itself as its last
  action. Can be optimized by reusing the using the stack frame. Represents an
  iterative process. In Scala it can be annotated with `@tailrec` so that the
  compiler will succeed only if the function is indeed tail recursive.
  Refer [Tail Recursion Explained - Computerphile](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_JtPhF8MshA)

{% highlight scala %}
// function to get the nth Fibonacci number
def fib(n: Int): Int = {
  @tailrec
  def loop(n1: Int, n2: Int, i: Int): Int = {
    if (i == n) n1
    else loop(n2, n1+n2, i+1) // <- tail call
  }

  loop(0, 1, 0)
}
{% endhighlight %}

- **monomorphic function**: is a function that operates only on one datatype
- **polymorphic/generic function**: A generic function is a function that is
  declared with type parameters. When called, actual types are used instead of
  the type parameters.

- **anonymous function**: Inline functions that can be defined without a name. Also known as *lambda function*, or *function literal*.

Following code snippet is an example for polymorphic function (since it is generic over the data type `A`) and higher order function (since the second parameter it takes has to be a function).

{% highlight scala %}
def findFirst[A](as: Array[A], p: A => Boolean): Int = {
  @tailrec
  def loop(n: Int): Int = {
    if (n >= as.length) -1
    else if (p(as(n))) n
    else loop(n+1)          // <- tail call
  }

  loop(0)
}

// the 'x => x == 5' is an anonymous function
findFirst[Int](Array(1,2,3,4,5), x => x == 5) //4

findFirst[String](Array("a", "b", "c"), x => x == "c") //2
{% endhighlight %}

Another example of anonymous functions

{% highlight scala %}
val square: Int => Int = x => x * x
// OR
val square = (x:Int) => x * x

square(2) // 4
square(3) // 9
{% endhighlight %}

- **Call-by-value**, also known as strict evaluation, evaluates the function
  arguments before the function is applied. This means that the arguments are
  evaluated regardless of whether they are actually used by the function. Here
  is an example of call-by-value in Scala:

{% highlight scala %}
def square(x: Int): Int = x * x

val result = square(2 + 2)
{% endhighlight %}
In this code, the square function takes an Int argument and returns the square
of that argument. When the square function is called with the argument `2 + 2`,
the argument is evaluated first, and the result is `4`. Then, the square function
is applied to the value `4`, and the result is `16`.

- **Call-by-name** evaluates the function arguments only if and when they are
  used by the function. This means that the arguments are only evaluated if
  they are actually needed to compute the result of the function. Here is an
  example of call-by-name in Scala:

{% highlight scala %}
def square(x: => Int): Int = x * x

val result = square(2 + 2)
{% endhighlight %}

In this code, the `square` function takes an `Int` argument, but the argument is preceded by the `=>` symbol. This indicates that the argument is evaluated by-name, rather than by-value. When the square function is called with the argument `2 + 2`, the argument is not immediately evaluated. Instead, the square function is applied to the unevaluated argument `2 + 2`, and the result is `4 * 4` or `16`.
- Data Abstraction: The ability to choose different implementations of the data
  without affecting clients.

---
